---
title: Job inputs
description: Job inputs
slug: jobs/inputs
draft: true
sidebar:
  label: Inputs
  order: 10
---


From a high level view, these are the ways to get data into the system:

- *files* - read files from a directory, as they appear. Useful for consuming logs and the output of other programs. [S]
- *echo* - specify events for a job directly [S}]
- *exec* - execute a command in the current shell and capture its output. [S]
- **object stores**: *s3*, *azure*, *gcp*, *filesystem*. The unifying idea is remote objects are contained in a _bucket_, and one can match object names. Objects can be uncompressed and Parquet files can be streamed as JSON events. [S]
- *http-poll* - perform an HTTP request. Specify headers, query parameters and body. [S]
- *http-server* - start listening on a port and accept incoming HTTP requests.
- *internal-messages* - listen to Lyftdata messages.
- *window-event-log* - (Windows Only) listen to system events.
- *worker-channel* - listen to events generated by other jobs.

The inputs marked with [S] are _scheduled_, that is they are triggered by messages or a regular time interval.  These all have a `Trigger` option.

The other inputs wait for data as it becomes available, so for instance `files` waits for new files to be created.
## Controlling Data Format

Most inputs have shared concepts of `Ignore Linebreaks` and `JSON`.

You set `JSON` if the data is known to be JSON, otherwise it is arbitrary text that must be _quoted_  - '{"_raw": "arbitrary text"}'

Normally, we process events on a line by line basis, but setting `Ignore Linebreaks` will grab all of the output as a single event.   For instance, some HTTP APIs return JSON documents with linefeeds, so both of these options need to be enabled.

The set of events that arrive all in a 'chunk' (as a result of a executable single run or a HTTP request) is called a document; can ask to batch these things together [[Output Batching]] 

`exec` and `http-poll` have also got `Batch`, which has a different function to the output `Batch`. It allows you to label the events of a document. If enabled then by default it adds `line-num` and `line-count` to each event.

## Retrying

Many operations (input, output or action?) can fail semi-randomly but can be successfully retried. The best example is when doing a HTTP request.  Retrying involves specifying two things (a) number of times to retry? and (b) an optional pause between retries. 

After each retry, the pause is doubled, up to a maximum of 15 seconds.





