---
title: Glossary
description: Glossary
draft: true
sidebar:
  label: Glossary
  order: 1
  # badge:
  #   text: New
  #   variant: tip
---

## General terms

### `Server`

The server is the central component of the platform. It provides the UI and APIs of a Lyftdata deployment. It is responsible for managing workers, jobs, and user access. The server is also responsible for the aggregation and storage of metrics, logs, and trace data.

### `Worker`

Workers are processes that executes Jobs. Each worker is configured to connect to a server.

### `Job`

A Job is a data processing pipeline that consists of an input, zero or more actions, and an output. The configuration of a Job is referred to as a Job definition.

### `Job definition`

A job definition is the platform's internal representation of a Job configuration. Job definitions are created and modified in the UI's visual editor, and then staged for deployment to workers.

### `Event data`

Data flowing into and through jobs is referred to as event data.

### `Input`

Each job contains one input, which is the initial stage of the Job, and which determines where the Job's input data is read from.

### `Output`

Each job contains one output, which is the final stage of the Job, and which determines where the Job's output data is sent.

### `Action`

A job may contain zero or more sequential actions that operate on event data flowing through the Job. Actions are executed after Job input, and before Job output.

### `Visual editor`

The visual editor allows users to create, inspect and modify job definitions. It is available within the UI.

### `Staging`

Staging relates to readying job definitions for deployment. Only staged Jobs can be deployed to workers. Once a job definition is staged, an immutable copy of the job definition is created for use in deployments. The original Job definition may be modified and re-staged.

### `Deployment`

Refers to the process by which a job definition is added or updated on a worker.

### `Auto-enrollment`

An authentication method used to authenticate workers to a server, by using a single, pre-shared key, instead of individual worker API keys.

### `Worker API key`

An authentication method used to authenticate workers to a server, by using individual worker API keys. This is an alternative authentication method to auto-enrollment.

### `Metrics`

Metrics are usage statistics data that are generated by Jobs. Metrics data is accumulated and stored on the Server, and is subject to data retention configuration.

### `Logs`

Log are generated by different components of the platform. Log data is accumulated and stored on the Server, and is subject to data retention configuration.

### `Traces`

### `Message system`

The message system is an internal system that allows different components of the platform to communicate with each other. The message system is used to send events, logs, and metrics between different components of the platform. It also provides support for user-generated messages, which can be created and subscribed to within Jobs.

### `Context`

Context is user-provided configuration data that can be specified at the server, worker or job level. Context data can be accessed within jobs using a special syntax: `{{CONTEXT_KEY}}`.

### `Variable expansion`

Variable expansion is an advanced feature in job configuration. This feature allows jobs to access event data, centralized or external configuration data, and data about internal job statistics and state.
